So now that we know for whom this module is, let me summarize JavaScript briefly.
JavaScript is a weakly typed programming language.
It's an object oriented programming language, and it's very versatile.
Now, what do you mean with that weekly type means that we have no explicit type assignment.
JavaScript knows types like numbers or text, which is called string or booleans, which is true or
false, but it doesn't force you to define which type you're using in a variable or in a function.
And indeed, you can also have a variable where you store a number which you then suddenly change to
a text variable so you can switch types dynamically in other languages.
This is differently and whilst this gives you greater flexibility to be able to change it and to not
have strict typing, it also can lead to errors.
So it is just something you have to be aware of.
Object oriented simply means that data can be organized in logical objects and will see these objects
in this module.
And one important concept here is that you have to be aware about the difference of primitive and reference
types.
And attached to this lecture you'll find a link to an article and video I created for my free YouTube
channel, a of mind, where I do dive into primitive and reference types and where I do explain the
difference and why they are important.
So definitely check that out.
If primitive and reference types don't tell you anything.
Regarding the versatility.
Well, we can see that in this course JavaScript runs in the browser and this is actually where it comes
from, but you can also use it with no charges to run it on your PC outside of a browser set up or also
on a server day of work.
And that is exactly what we'll do in this course.
We'll build a web server with Node.js.
So we got this broad versatility of being able to use JavaScript on different platforms, and you can
also perform a broad variety of tasks with JavaScript.
Also, depending on the platform you're running on, you can in the browser listen to user events,
re render the DOM and on the server or on a PC.
You can work with files, with databases, a lot of cool stuff.
So this is the summary of JavaScript and what makes up the language.
Let's now dive into some core features, also some core next generation JavaScript features which are
supported by no charges.
And let's see some things we'll see throughout the course.